				Instructions
				------------

	This document provides comprehensive instructions for building
and installing the MELM mail system. It is essential to thoroughly
review this file prior to initiating the creation and installation
of the software contained within.

	It should be pretty easy to build the Elm package.  First,
you need to unpack all of the files from the source distribution.
Then run the "Configure" package configuration script.  Most people
will do this simply by saying:

	    $ cd /path/to/melm-main
	    $ sh Configure

	Just answer the program's questions, and it'll take care of
generating the necessary Makefiles and system definition files for you.
Once it's done, you can double-check the setup or customize it further
by reading the Configuration Guide and then re-running Configure. There
are some cool features unique to this mailer, so take a quick look and
see what you can discover!

	Once you're happy with the localized files, you then need to
create the documentation.  There's a paradoxical situation where you
need to finalize the Configuration guide before you're satisfied with
the localization, but you can't do that until you're satisfied with the
localization itself.

	$

	$ make documentation

    When that's done, or even if it fails (don't worry too much about
it), do the following:

	$ make all > MAKELOG 2>&1 &
	$ tail -f MAKELOG

This may take a fair while. Be patient. You can do something else in
your free time while you wait.

You can install all the software on your system by executing

	$ make install
	
Note: On some systems the mailer runs as setgid mail to have the
ability to WRITE to the mail directory (for lock files).  If this is
true, you will have to be root to install Elm (or some other user that
can have the makefile set the setgid bit on the required executables).
If you have a different scheme at your site, feel free to set it up to
use that instead.

Finally, we're just about done!   The final checks can be made
by the following commands:

	$ elm

should say "no mail" if nothing's in your incoming mailbox or should
start up the Elm program if there is, and

	$ elm -f test/test.mail

should read in 3 different messages from "Foobar Incorporated".

Congratulations!  You've just installed Melm!

If transitioning from original Elm or older versions of Melm, it will
be necessary for all users alias files, as well as the systems alias
file, be upgraded to the new format.  Also some error checking of
alias files has been added.  All users should run the newalias command.

HANDY HINTS:  If you want to create a print of the entire set of
sources, including this file, use the command:

	$ make listing

Also, if you have a number of machines on a network, you can rlogin
to the remote machine and then do a remote install (after checking
to ensure that the networking copy method in the Makefile under the
target "remote-install" is correct) by typing:

	$ make -f <remote Makefile> REMOTE=<remote file system> rmt-install

(for example, if we had installed the system on machine "machx" and 
 wanted to install it on "machy", with the Makefile in /src/Elm on
 "machx", we could type from "machy";
	 $ make -f machx:/src/Elm/Makefile REMOTE=machx: rmt-install
 to have it install the system on machine y!)

That's it!
----------

  This document and the entire mail system is

	(C) Copyright 1988-1995 by the Usenet Community Trust
	(C) Copyright 1986,1987 by Dave Taylor
	(C) Copyright 2023-present by the Melm Project
