			An Overview of the melm Mail System
			-----------------------------------

Introduction

	This file discusses the functionality of the melm mail system
and explains some of the motivation behind the various features.

1. What is Elm?

	melm is a "User Agent" system.
	It is designed to run with "sendmail" or "/bin/rmail" or any
other UNIX Mail Transport Agent (according to what's on your system)
and is a full replacement of programs like "/bin/mail" and "mailx".
But melm is more than just a single program, however, and includes
programs like "frm" to list a 'table of contents' of your mail, and
"printmail" to quickly paginate mail files (to allow 'clean'
printouts).

2. What's New about melm?

	The most significant difference between melm and elm is that
melm is better integrated into modern methods of sending mail. Upon
further use, however, users will find that melm is also quite a bit
easier to use, and quite a bit more intelligent about sending mail
and so on.

	For example, say you're on Tor and receive a message from
someone on the Internet. The sender also cc'd another person on the
Internet.  With melm you can simply press G or click "Group reply"
and it will build the correct return addresses.

3. What systems does melm work on?

	The Elm development group uses almost every UNIX system out
there between all of its volunteers.  Elm runs on FreeBSD, Linux,
HP-UX, traditional Unix, Hurd, and should run on almost any UNIX
system without any modifications.

4. Does it obey existing mail standards?

	Yes. Example: to ensure that the date field, the "From:" line
and so on were all added in the correct format.  The program is 99.9%
correct according to the RFC-822 electronic mail header protocol
guide.

5. Is it reliable?

	melm is designed to run on modern systems that Elm normally
would not support. If you run traditional Unix systems like System
V, you will probably want to use Elm instead, but Elm is classified as
abandonware and hasn't been updated since 2005.

6. Disclaimers 

	The melm project will deny all liability for any
damages, either real or imagined, due to the execution of this program
or anything related to either the software or the system.  Furthermore,
the entire system and all source within, including the presentation
screens and commands, are legally copyrighted by the author, and while
they can be used, and abused, for public domain systems, it will be in 
violation of the law if used in systems or programs sold for profit.

	By installing the mailer or extracting it from the network,
you are agreeing to the above disclaimer.

Original: March 13th, 1986
Modified: November 16th, 2023
	TylerMS887, melm Founder
	melm Project
